README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# FoodBasket / MISE

**Centralized Discovery, Brand-level Identity**

</div>

## Links

- [Documentation](https://docs.foodbasket.app)
- [Main Page](https://foodbasket.app)

## Overview

MISE is a specialized B2B backend and frontend suite designed for the restaurant
industry. Built as a direct competitor and a direct opposite of table-littered POS
systems, MISE treats relational restaurant data as a multi-axis stream, focusing
on spatial UI consistency and forgivefulness for users.

By the way, MISE comes for mise en place in French, or just "store" if you fancy
the Japanese meaning more. It's whatever most comfortable for you.

## Motivation

This project was created as a clone of my capstone project, but steered towards
my vision of the project, instead. Here are a few main reasons as well as differences
that led to the creation of this project.

- They don't seem to care about sources of truth. Their version of an SRS or a PRD
  is simply a list of features, or what they want to do, such as "A branch manager
  can manage menu items (add, remove, delete)".
- They are optimizing for the first minute the user uses, as long as you can master
  the tool in 5 minutes, that's good enough. I want to optimize for the user's 1000th
  minute of usage, I want them to work with the system fast instead of following
  the system step-by-step like a form-filling data spreadsheet job.
- They are thinking that data normalization should be the principle of the platform,
  regardless of user intuition. Clones are always referenced, like a branch is a
  "ref" to another, and changing the template branch changes all affected
  branches as a way to boast about automation and efficiency. For me, this is
  error-prone, and people prefer explicitness in a B2B software, I'd assume so.
- They want to use tables to represent naturally relational data, such as menus
  and items, or users and roles, while wanting to use a hierarchical layout for
  billings and data management.
- They let the libraries, chosen technologies to be rather limited to do the heavy
  lifting, but they can't customize it or work outside the libraries. So the way
  they use those libraries dictates what the database or the UI design to be.

And there are a lot more reasons, but that's the gist of it. The clash in philosophy
is too big to warrant fighting it out over a capstone.

## Requirements

These include libraries or binaries that are required to do any development work
at all:

- Docker & Docker Compose
- Cosmtrek's Air
- Golang v1.25.5 or higher
- Sqlc
- Swaggo
- NodeJS (via NVM or NPM is fine)
- GoTask (aka Taskfile)
- Caddyserver (not required, but nice to have)
- Go Test Sum (for viewing beautiful output from testing)
- Gocovsh (for viewing coverage report from testing)

> The following instructions are generated by an LLM.

MacOS (via Homebrew):

```bash
brew install golang node go-task/tap/go-task sqlc

go install github.com/air-verse/air@latest
go install gotest.tools/gotestsum@latest
```

Debian-based (via APT):

```bash
curl -1sLf 'https://dl.cloudsmith.io/public/task/task/setup.deb.sh' | sudo -E bash
sudo apt install task

go install github.com/sqlc-dev/sqlc/cmd/sqlc@latest
go install github.com/air-verse/air@latest
go install gotest.tools/gotestsum@latest
```

Windows:

```bash
# Using Scoop (Recommended for Gophers)
scoop install go nodejs-lts task sqlc air

# Using Winget
winget install GoLang.Go.1.25
winget install OpenJS.NodeJS.LTS
winget install go-task.task
```

Other platforms, go into each software's instructions to install. I can't go
that deep.

## Structure

This project is setup as a mono-repo handled with `Taskfile`. Run `task` or `go-task`
to see usable commands. For example:

- `go-task dev` starts the backend and all the frontends with hot reload.
- `go-task test:backend` for testing Backend
- `go-task build` tries to build Docker images of each to allow easy deployment.
- `go-task generate` to generate type-safe queries with SQLC and Swaggo documentation.
- `go-task build:ui` to build the UI components.

There are the following apps inside this mono-repo, under `/apps`:

- `backend`: The centralized backend of the system.
  - Uses Go and Echo.
  - Port 8080.
- `frontend-admin`: The platform-wide administrative panels of the system.
  - Uses Vite, Vue and Vue Router.
  - Port 5173.
- `frontend-home`: The home of the SaaS.
  - Uses Astro and Vue.
  - Port 4321.
- `frontend-pos`: POS SPA/PWA for workers in a POS system.
  - Uses Vite, Vue, Vue Router and Service Worker.
  - Port 5174
- `frontend-tenant`: The home page of the tenant's.
  - Uses Astro and Vue.
  - Port 4322.

> For reference, this is the capstone's team's setup:
>
> Also a mono repo, under `/apps`:
>
> - `backend`: Centralized backend of the system.
>   - Uses NestJS and @orpc/nest.
> - `frontend`: Centralized frontend of the system.
>   - Uses Tanstack Router, React and @orpc/client.
> - Type-safe `pkgs/api-contracts` to import into both.
>
> This sounds great on paper, but from what I noticed, it's a lot of problems because
> everytime there's some dude committing something, the others are like "wait we haven't
> updated that contract yet". So when the other eventually do update them, the other
> have to go back and change what the previous person changed. That doesn't seem
> wonky and roundabout at all.

## Local Environment Setup

Due to the nature of DNS-level namespacing of this project, you would need to modify
your system's hostfile for the most similar setup to production.

> In my capstone's team, this is not needed as there's only one frontend and one
> backend. And everything is namespaced in the path level.

To edit the hostfile, edit `/etc/hosts` on Unix systems and `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts`
on Windows, and add the following:

```plaintext
127.0.0.1        foodbasket.localhost
127.0.0.1        admin.foodbasket.localhost
127.0.0.1        twinbells.foodbasket.localhost
127.0.0.1        pos.twinbells.foodbasket.localhost
```

`twinbells` can be changed to match whatever your fake restaurant to be. But this
should be enough to differentiate between the four frontend applications. You may
add more to the system, for example a different tenant to see what.

### Using Caddy/Nginx

You may use caddy or nginx as a way to reverse proxy into the services. There is
already a `Caddyfile` as an example for what you can do. But I won't go too deep
into that.

Commit message:

feat(backend): rewrite health handler in rust

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# FoodBasket / MISE

**Centralized Discovery, Brand-level Identity**

</div>

## Links

- [Documentation](https://docs.foodbasket.app)
- [Main Page](https://foodbasket.app)

## Overview

MISE is a specialized B2B backend and frontend suite designed for the restaurant
industry. Built as a direct competitor and a direct opposite of table-littered POS
systems, MISE treats relational restaurant data as a multi-axis stream, focusing
on spatial UI consistency and forgivefulness for users.

By the way, MISE comes for mise en place in French, or just "store" if you fancy
the Japanese meaning more. It's whatever most comfortable for you.

## Motivation

This project was created as a clone of my capstone project, but steered towards
my vision of the project, instead. Here are a few main reasons as well as differences
that led to the creation of this project.

- They don't seem to care about sources of truth. Their version of an SRS or a PRD
  is simply a list of features, or what they want to do, such as "A branch manager
  can manage menu items (add, remove, delete)".
- They are optimizing for the first minute the user uses, as long as you can master
  the tool in 5 minutes, that's good enough. I want to optimize for the user's 1000th
  minute of usage, I want them to work with the system fast instead of following
  the system step-by-step like a form-filling data spreadsheet job.
- They are thinking that data normalization should be the principle of the platform,
  regardless of user intuition. Clones are always referenced, like a branch is a
  "ref" to another, and changing the template branch changes all affected
  branches as a way to boast about automation and efficiency. For me, this is
  error-prone, and people prefer explicitness in a B2B software, I'd assume so.
- They want to use tables to represent naturally relational data, such as menus
  and items, or users and roles, while wanting to use a hierarchical layout for
  billings and data management.
- They let the libraries, chosen technologies to be rather limited to do the heavy
  lifting, but they can't customize it or work outside the libraries. So the way
  they use those libraries dictates what the database or the UI design to be.

And there are a lot more reasons, but that's the gist of it. The clash in philosophy
is too big to warrant fighting it out over a capstone.

## Requirements

> These requirements may be out of date as the backend is in the process of being
> migrated to Rust, because why not.

These include libraries or binaries that are required to do any development work
at all:

- Docker & Docker Compose
- Cosmtrek's Air
- Golang v1.25.5 or higher
- Sqlc
- Swaggo
- NodeJS (via NVM or NPM is fine)
- GoTask (aka Taskfile)
- Caddyserver (not required, but nice to have)
- Go Test Sum (for viewing beautiful output from testing)
- Gocovsh (for viewing coverage report from testing)
- Atlas (Database migration tool)

> The following instructions are generated by an LLM.

MacOS (via Homebrew):

```bash
brew install golang node go-task/tap/go-task sqlc

go install github.com/air-verse/air@latest
go install gotest.tools/gotestsum@latest
```

Debian-based (via APT):

```bash
curl -1sLf 'https://dl.cloudsmith.io/public/task/task/setup.deb.sh' | sudo -E bash
sudo apt install task

go install github.com/sqlc-dev/sqlc/cmd/sqlc@latest
go install github.com/air-verse/air@latest
go install gotest.tools/gotestsum@latest
```

Windows:

```bash
# Using Scoop (Recommended for Gophers)
scoop install go nodejs-lts task sqlc air

# Using Winget
winget install GoLang.Go.1.25
winget install OpenJS.NodeJS.LTS
winget install go-task.task
```

Other platforms, go into each software's instructions to install. I can't go
that deep.

## Structure

This project is setup as a mono-repo handled with `Taskfile`. Run `task` or `go-task`
to see usable commands. For example:

- `go-task dev` starts the backend and all the frontends with hot reload.
- `go-task test:backend` for testing Backend
- `go-task build` tries to build Docker images of each to allow easy deployment.
- `go-task generate` to generate type-safe queries with SQLC and Swaggo documentation.
- `go-task build:ui` to build the UI components.

There are the following apps inside this mono-repo, under `/apps`:

- `backend`: The centralized backend of the system.
  - Uses Go and Echo.
  - Port 8080.
- `frontend-admin`: The platform-wide administrative panels of the system.
  - Uses Vite, Vue and Vue Router.
  - Port 5173.
- `frontend-home`: The home of the SaaS.
  - Uses Astro and Vue.
  - Port 4321.
- `frontend-pos`: POS SPA/PWA for workers in a POS system.
  - Uses Vite, Vue, Vue Router and Service Worker.
  - Port 5174
- `frontend-tenant`: The home page of the tenant's.
  - Uses Astro and Vue.
  - Port 4322.

> For reference, this is the capstone's team's setup:
>
> Also a mono repo, under `/apps`:
>
> - `backend`: Centralized backend of the system.
>   - Uses NestJS and @orpc/nest.
> - `frontend`: Centralized frontend of the system.
>   - Uses Tanstack Router, React and @orpc/client.
> - Type-safe `pkgs/api-contracts` to import into both.
>
> This sounds great on paper, but from what I noticed, it's a lot of problems because
> everytime there's some dude committing something, the others are like "wait we haven't
> updated that contract yet". So when the other eventually do update them, the other
> have to go back and change what the previous person changed. That doesn't seem
> wonky and roundabout at all.

## Local Environment Setup

Due to the nature of DNS-level namespacing of this project, you would need to modify
your system's hostfile for the most similar setup to production.

> In my capstone's team, this is not needed as there's only one frontend and one
> backend. And everything is namespaced in the path level.

To edit the hostfile, edit `/etc/hosts` on Unix systems and `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts`
on Windows, and add the following:

```plaintext
127.0.0.1        foodbasket.localhost
127.0.0.1        admin.foodbasket.localhost
127.0.0.1        twinbells.foodbasket.localhost
127.0.0.1        pos.twinbells.foodbasket.localhost
```

`twinbells` can be changed to match whatever your fake restaurant to be. But this
should be enough to differentiate between the four frontend applications. You may
add more to the system, for example a different tenant to see what.

### Using Caddy/Nginx

You may use caddy or nginx as a way to reverse proxy into the services. There is
already a `Caddyfile` as an example for what you can do. But I won't go too deep
into that.
